1, 2, 3.def-topic, 3.def-sub, 3.indef-topic, *3.indef-topic (only definite nouns can be the subject)
this later turns into
1, 2, 3.same_referent, 3.alt_referent, 3.indefinite
    replacement of topic-comment structure with subject-object
how much person marking do I want?
    in light of archaic agreement reflexes, perhaps no person marking, only definiteness?
    OTOH, perhaps the archaic reflexes are partially-incorporated pronouns and these person markers are older; the lang gave up on the pronouns, but there's still a trace left
    oh, full person marking is for motion verbs only anyway
on non-motion verbs:
    def.sameref, def.altref, indef


TODO:
    definiteness [agreement] (and possibly also quantifiers)
    ergative person agreement (motion verbs only)
        the idea here is that motion verbs always took a direction, and that direction was inflected for person (the person of the thing that the motion is referenced against)
        rather than mix things up a lot, the reference person was always the subject for intransitive, but always the object for transitive (which is a politeness strategy, as that tended to put the reference in the listener's frame, or a more objective frame)
        The person marking for the preposition would be marked on the verb, but as politeness shifted everything, it got re-interpreted as a plain verbal person marker
        Therefore, no preposition would need to escape or grammaticalize into the verb
    archaic person reflex
    tense
    valency operations
    (all combined): telicity (should there be a derivation of "to death"? like Volapük), evidentiality, mirativity, mood, degree (e.g. intensive, attenuative, durative)
    relativizer/participle marking
    adverbs, limited noun incorporation?, advanced tenses and aspects (hodernial &c; frequentive, iterative, &c)
    polarity?
    being a question is marked on the verb
could be lexical, inflection, non-configurational/concatenative inflection, clitic, or just peripheral, marked on other words, or word-order derived
Core-most inflections are:
    definiteness agreement, archaic person reflex, tense?, aspect

aspect
    anterior (just Ved/Ving; V before (V_2))
        can be used to chain actions in time sequentially
        without another verb in the clause, means discontinuous (was the case in past, but not now; is the case, but won't be) or interrupted
    simultaneous (while V)
        used without another verb in the clause, can be progressive or stative (depending on the verb)
    imperfective
    perfective (zero-marked)
archaic person agreement reflexes
    distinguishes plural from singular, but also distinguishes inclusive 1st person in the plural

it seems that lexical aspect isn't really the perfective-imperfective sort; why?

be sure to base some inflections on old words for e.g. to go, to have, &c

some mirativity (esp. stand-alone (not fused with other stuff)) could be verbal clitics, but shown not to be sentence particles b/c they can appear in relative clauses

If a language has different tense categories and shows a split between 1st versus 2nd/3rd person marking in one of these categories, it is most probably that this split will occur in the future tense. 


adjectives can be used like nouns (or also like verbs?)
relative case can be used as a simulative ("like X", and I getting the name right?)
for possesion constructions, but a relative (simulative) on the possesum and also a person marker that agrees with the posessor
